# Clean code review #4

## Followup on previous reviews

### Project doesn't build
The project continues not to build.  The project not building continues to have a serious, severe impact to the quality of code reviews.  See the [original warning](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#doesnt-compile) and the [follow-up warning](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/2/2.md#doesnt-build) and the [second followup warning](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/3/3.md#project-doesnt-build).

### In General

In general, I'm not seeing a lot of progress relating to many of the items in the previous review.  In order to not beat a dead horse I won't review them again here, but refer to the [previous review](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/3/3.md) for details.

## Notifications

The pattern from `Notifications.swift` is good, because it eliminates errors of the form "contents of string are misspelled" to a compile-time check.

Consider using a similar compile-time constant for userInfo keys, or a custom class as a bag of values, to get similar safety on other aspects of the notification.

## Threading

In addition to the extended discussion in the preview review, there are some new opportunities for threading problems in code added this week.  

One is that a variable called `stack.remainingCards` is manipulated on a background queue (`dispatch_get_global_queue(DISPATCH_QUEUE_PRIORITY_DEFAULT, 0)`).  Since this is a [concurrent queue](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Conceptual/ConcurrencyProgrammingGuide/OperationQueues/OperationQueues.html), then if the function is called twice, even on the same thread, you will get strange results.  This property is called [non-reentrance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reentrancy_(computing)).  

Because in this case the function is called from `viewDidLoad`, and because `viewDidLoad` [getting called twice is a common bug in iOS applications](https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=viewDidLoad%20twice), (often not revealed until someone writes a function with strange threading behavior like this one, that bubble up and produce strange and unexpected bugs elsewhere in the program), it's a very good idea to take extra steps here.

I'd recommend one of several approaches:

* Using a custom *serial* queue to guard access to this array, and auditing the function for re-entrace
* Guarding the function with `dispatch_once`, to ensure repeated calls have no effect
* Detecting this case, and bubbling up an error

## Swift Style

### Argument labeling

Consider carefully the caller's responsibility when designing APIs.  For example, consider this call:

```
cardViewMovementController.cardDragged(foo)
```

What would you expect `foo` to be?  Well, going on the name of the function, maybe an instance of the card that was dragged?  Or maybe the argument is a boolean, that indicates whether the card was dragged (`YES`) or not (`NO`).  **In fact this function takes an `NSNotification` instance as its argument.**

Instead, ideally this function would be called as

```
cardViewMovementController.cardDragged(notification: foo)
```

This makes it clear when reading the code what is being passed.  This syntax is achievable by declaring

```
func cardDragged(#notification: NSNotification!)  {
   //...
}
```
### Optionals

The function above is also curious because the type of its argument is an implicitly-unwrapped optional.  If the function always wants a type, a non-optional value is far better:

```
func cardDragged(#notification: NSNotification)  {
   //...
}
```

This is because it is firm in its intent for an NSNotification object to be provided, provides better compile-time bug checking, and generates faster code.

In general, this is the list of types, from best (safest) to worst (not safest):

1.  Non-optional types (e.g. not `?` or `!`)
2. Optional types (`?`), when both the nil and non-nil case are both **handled** (e.g. code is written) and **tested** (e.g. somebody tried it)
3. Implicitly unwrapped optionals (`!`)
4. Optional types (`?`), when the nil and non-nil case are 'eyeballed' to 'probably work'.

Generally, always be thinking about how to move higher up the safety tree.  Improvements from 3 to 1 are possible in some cases, and case 4 should be eliminated in favor of one of the safer patterns.  Improvements from 3 to 2 are always possible, but are often too much work to be practical.

###Constants

Prefer `let` to `var`.  `let` is safer, easier to reason about, and in general can emit more optimal code.  Promote to `var` when it becomes clear that the values will change.

For example the `dragCard` function declares a lot of variables, none of which change.  These should be `let`.

### Default cases

use `preconditionFailure(...)` to mark unreachable code.  For example

```
default:
           assert(false, "should reach here")
```

Should be

```
default:
    preconditionFailure("should not reach here")
```

Assert has no effect in a Release build.  This means that if "unreachable" code is somehow "reached" in the wild, nobody will ever find out.  `precondition` stays on unless you compile in "unchecked" mode, a special mode which is scarier and not normally used.

As an implementation detail, `assert(false)` doesn't work in functions with return values (and certain types of closures), because the function will still "return" without a "value" when compiled for Release.  `precondition` doesn't have this problem, so it's a better pattern for "I solemnly swear this code will never run."






