# Days Code Review #2 (#7)
1/20/15

## What was reviewed

I reviewed 5 commits ranging from Jan 14th-Jan 18th.  *25% of this review was spent updating the task list.*

Overall this codebase is very good.  It's legible; the organization makes sense.  Commit messages are good. The architecture diagram helps.  Things are named well.


I'm pushing two "big" ideas this week--tests and view size.

## Tests

Let's talk about bugs.  Show me a function with more than 20 lines and I'll show you a bug.  It's basically a law of software engineering that the longer you stare at a page of code the more problems you can find with it.

Obviously, the best thing to do is not to write the bugs in the first place.  Languages like Swift that have safety features help, and we've talked about some strategies, like handling optionals.

The second thing to do is to get a plan in place for dealing with the bugs that get written.  That's why we have tests.  A test has two purposes:

1.  To know things work in the first place
2.  To know things keep working over time

Now a lot of people don't write tests because "they know it works".  But in reality you don't know something works, until you have tested it.  In fact most things *don't* work--they "work on my machine", "work with optimizations turned off", etc.

Not all tests are automated.  For example if you are writing view code, then the test may literally be to drag the view with your finger.  But the fact that the view does something reasonable **is not evidence** that the plumbing was right.  A database layer may happily report that a save succeeded when it did not, for example.  So for this reason, you should be writing automated tests for models code.

Writing tests correctly requires much less investment than usually anticipated.  When developing models or controllers (not *view* controllers) code, you intuitively check the operation by examining the view behavior.  But writing a test is much more direct and accurate development workflow, and it does not require the programmer to manually repeat the same procedure over and over in the simulator.  As such, when correctly applied to the correct kinds of problems, it saves development time against its alternatives.

Rather than the "pick a class" approach, I'd recommend using tests as a development workflow this week whenever you work on models code.  Controllers are another good candidate, but they're a more of an intermediate difficulty level.  On the other hand, I can help you if you get stuck in the next review.

The other thing about tests is they can stay with you.  This has 2 important implications:

1.  Don't invest in tests for things you anticipate will change or will be thrown out.  (In particular, views, are a terrible choice.)
2.  Tests provide advance bug forecasts when you make large codebase changes.  Counterintuitively, this makes complex changes easier to execute, since you have immediate feedback from a large testsuite.

The second is a powerful reason why tests often beat out many other methods of ensuring code quality, such as manually reviewing behavior in the simulator.

There are no tests in this project, but if you write some, I can give you feedback next week.  If you're looking for examples of good Swift tests, I can point you to [two](https://github.com/drewcrawford/DCAKit/blob/master/DCAKitTests/BetterKeychainTests.swift) [testsuites](https://github.com/drewcrawford/DCAKit/blob/master/DCAKitTests/AutolayoutTests.swift) in DCAKit that are a good place to start.

## View length

I'm starting to get concerned about the length of views and view-related files on this project.  For reference:

* The poorly-named `ViewController.swift`: 236 lines
* `CardView`: 225 lines
* `StackCell`: 324 lines

Let's look at some cases.  Consider first this bit of coupling:

```
//StackView.swift
// MARK: Gesture handling
// this method responds to user's pan gestures, manipulates the stack's CardViews accordingly and notifies model if a card was kept/hidden
func handlePan(recognizer: UIPanGestureRecognizer) {
```

A reasonable claim.  But scrolling down, we notice some odd things about this function:

```
// animate the next card to the center of the stack(will become the new top card)
                nextCardView?.toCenterOfStack(isAnimated: true)
                
                // notify model card with kept/hidden
                if(side! == .Up) {
                    self.eventListener?.cardKept(card: cardView.card)
                }
                else {
                    self.eventListener?.cardHidden(card: cardView.card)
                }
```

Notice how this logic goes:

1.  First, we do the thing
2.  Next, we tell the model we did the thing

This is one of those ways in which things can go wrong: If the model says "No, you can't do this thing", or "How about we interpret your request as a slightly different thing" which are both reasonable beahvior for models/controllers (or "nonviews") in general, there's no way to correct for that.  That's a limitation of this approach.  Continuing our audit:

```
// change the next Card's alpha
nextCardView?.changeAlpha(completed: completed)
```

Note that this `StackCell` is operating with specific knowledge about such details as the alpha of other views (views with hundreds of lines of their own code).  What happens here is you have sort of a "megacluster"--a cluster of classes that all break whenever you change anything in any of them.

Instead, you should be doing something like this:

```
nextCardView?.prepareForTopmost()
```

or maybe

```
nextCardView?.drawState = .Topmost
```

Let's look at another function in this class.  addCard.  How bad could it be?  How many ways are there to insert a card?  Several, it turns out.  The way this function is organized is as a switch pyramid that with a series of branches narrows in on the right implementation.  If you're really going to do that, then actually *do it*--produce a bunch of functions like `addHiddenCard` and use a master fucntion that calls those implementations.  But I don't think this situation actually demands that.

Take a look at how many ways there are to position the card.  First, it's inserted:

```
self.addSubview(cardView)
```

In the top case, it's reordered:

```
self.bringSubviewToFront(cardView)
```

In the bottom case, it's reordered differently:

```
self.sendSubviewToBack(cardView)
```

In the hidden case, it's re-ordered the same as the first way, although puzzlingly, the comment says the wrong thing (a failure mode I [predicted last week](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#comment-style), by the way)

```

// send to back
self.bringSubviewToFront(cardView)
```

Then way at the bottom somewhere, we have some preconditions, that nobody can remember what the conditions are because it was **literally** 100 lines ago:

```
    default:
        preconditionFailure("when adding cards from the hidden stack, only .Top position supported")
    }
default:
    preconditionFailure("only cards can currently be added only from .Hidden and .Remaining stacks")
}

```

This is madness.  I'm going to propose three alternate implementations, in order of increasing complexity.

### Eliminate state

The first idea is to pick one: either the cards or the views.  Do your insert in that one place.

Then, destroy and recreate the entire array of the other thing.  This has the advantage that you have less chance for bugs to stick around, since there's no chance of a state mismatch between the views and the models--it'll get cleared on the next add.

It has a performance disadvantage, but not as much as you might expect.  Try it.  You may be surprised.

There are also some minor optimizations that can be considered with this design, such as allowing many cards to be added iteratively and then a function to "commit" previous adds as a unit, blowing away the view tree.

### Set variables up front

Failing that, use the switch statement to set variables, not perform functions.  For example, instead of having all these inserts, just generate the **index** where the insert should happen.  Then, in the postlude of the function, set the view's Z-order to that index.  The same line of code executes the insert every time, with an index determined above.  Apply this reasoning to the rest of the function.

### Call out to helper functions

Failing *that*, organize your code like this

```
    func addCard(#card: Card, position: StackPosition, fromStack: StackType) {
    switch(fromStack) {
        case Remaining:
        addRemainingCard(...)
        case Bottom:
        addBottomCard(...)
        //etc.
    }
```

This at least makes it more readable, although I think the flow would still be problematic.  Look harder at the first two ideas.

I think with ideas like this you can get smaller view implementations.  Try and get your views under 100 lines; 200 lines is time to think about what can be refactored and 300+ lines is a bug.  The only model that takes hundreds and hundreds of lines of code to display is a poor one.

## Quick Improvements


### Audit spacing

Take a look at the snippet below

```
extension Day: StackEvents {
    
    func cardHidden(#card: Card) {
        var operation = NSBlockOperation(block: { () -> Void in

            assert(self.visibleCards.count > 0, "visibleCards must have items")
            
            card.hide()

            self.moveCard(fromStack: .Visible, fromPosition: .Top, toStack: .Hidden, toPosition: .Top)
            
            self.eventListener?.countersChanged()
            
            PhotoCache.sharedInstance.reload()
        })
        
        self.stackOperationsQueue.addOperation(operation)
        
        self.fillStack()
    }
```

See how every line has a space?  That's bad.  You don't need 8 "paragraphs" for a codeblock like this.  Use blank lines as a grouping mechanism to separate ideas.  This spacing style just makes it harder to fit code on the screen for no increase in legibility.

Audit the project for this sort of thing.  Just open a file and look for large gaps.

### Magic numbers

There's a lot of magic numbers going on in animations code:

```
        // centerY
        let finalCenterY: CGFloat = (side == .Up) ? 0-UIScreen.mainScreen().bounds.size.height/1.7 : UIScreen.mainScreen().bounds.size.height*1
        let centerY = stackCenter.y-(stackCenter.y-finalCenterY)*CGFloat(completed);

        // angle
        let degrees:Double = (side == .Up) ? 15.0*completed : 0-15.0*completed
        let angle = Angle(degrees: degrees)
        
        // scale
        let scale = (side == .Up) ? 1 : max(1-completed, 0.0001)
```

I mean, just try to read this.  Our finalCenterY is the screen's height divided by 1.7.  Why 1.7?  *Shrug*.  Why the device's screen and not the superview?  *Shrug*.  Code like this is not very readable, and referencing UIScreen in general from a view (rather than just the view's dimensions) is not a particularly good plan.

## Open Topics

* **Architecture Diagram**.  Some [changes](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#architecture) were recommended to the architecture diagram.
* **Comments**.  Changes to comment style were [previously recommended](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#comment-style), a poor style is still being used.  [This recent commit](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/commit/c6da7f00a479d5ff508dc2f2879c1246fa8e7121) is representative.  However, it does seem that more robust comments are being written in some cases.  Continue to work here.
* [**Potential iPad issue**](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#potential-ipad-issue)
* [**iPhone 4S layout**](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#iphone-4s-layout)
* [**Layout issues**](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#layout-issues)
* **Tableview issues**  The use of ViewControllers for [tableview delegates](https://github.com/eytanlevit/Days/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#delegatesdatasources) and the use of an outdated API involving tableviews

*Do you have any feedback, or is there anything you want me to offer an opinion on in my next review? Email me at drew@drewcrawfordapps.com.*