# Clean code review #2

## App Delegate

I took a deep dive into the App Delegate as part of this review.

### Redundant notifications

in `-[AppDelegate applicationWillEnterForeground:]` a notification is posted.  This seems redundant with the system notification `UIApplicationWillEnterForegroundNotification`, which should probably be used instead.

### Architecture considerations

The App Delegate is a type of [singleton](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singleton_pattern).  Singletons are useful and necessary in some cases (as here), but they are dangerous, because they, and by extension anything they contain, are a type of global variable.  To channel Wikipedia:

> They are usually considered bad practice precisely because of their non-locality: a global variable can potentially be modified from anywhere, and any part of the program may depend on it. A global variable therefore has an unlimited potential for creating mutual dependencies, and adding mutual dependencies increases complexity. However, in a few cases, global variables can be suitable for use. For example, they can be used to avoid having to pass frequently-used variables continuously throughout several functions. In practice, large programs may well require a large number of global variables because there are so many parameters that are shared between different functions, and care must be taken to make sure different functions share the global data without mishap.  

For the reasons outlined above and other reasons, it's important to audit carefully the scope and complexity of any singleton beyond the standard of care used for a normal class, and App Delegates are at particular risk because they can quickly become a grab bag of functionality in iOS applications.

Generally speaking, the approach should be to limit the App Delegate (or any other singleton's) knowledge and understanding of other application objects and behavior.  As much as possible, functionality should be pushed back into other application objects and the App Delegate (or other singleton) should only contain the very most high level code that is necessary.  Ideally, an App Delegate would initialize objects and perform no other behavior, but in practice the ideal can be relaxed slightly for good cause.

From a high level, this App Delegate performs several functions:

####Fairly low coupling

These functions show fair-to-good separation between AppDelegate and other application objects


* Parse
* YLConfig - would be better to architect this initialization like `-[YLAnalytics setup]` as it involves less coupling
* YLAnalytics - would be better to provide a dedicated init method that receives a boolean rather than 2-phase initialization
* SwipesCounter

#### Higher-risk coupling

These functions show poor-to-fair separation between AppDelegate and other application objects

* Visit logging - should be refactored into a helper class and called here, rather than appearing inline.  This would probably cut the size of the AppDelegate in half or better.
* Crashlytics - delegate should be a dedicated helper object, not AppDelegate

## YLObjectCache

From what I can tell (although it is hard to verify without being able to build), this is a simple file-based database, storing various kinds of unrelated objects, that has some inefficiencies.  

One inefficiency is that object writes occur that the *kind*-level.  This means that any change to, e.g., a swipeID, requires one to write out all the swipe IDs.  This means an insertion has a time complexity O(N), or a series of insertions has a time-complexity O(N^2).  In contrast, this can be implemented optimally for O(1) insertions or O(N) group insertions.  In real terms, for 100 items, this is a performance improvement of 100x.

Consider using a real database like Realm or Core Data where somebody has thought about this and has already written an efficient implementation.  Ordinarily, I'd say to benchmark to see if the current implementation is a bottleneck, but in this case 1) I can't build the project to benchmark it and 2) a Realm-based implementation is probably both simpler and faster, not just faster, so it can be justified on non-performance grounds.

## Fail to call super

`-[YLSignupWizardViewController viewDidAppear:]` fails to call super.  This is a bug, and causes undefined behavior in that view.

## Push early, push often

For a long period of time no commits were visible on GitHub.  Pushing regularly ensures I can write higher-quality reviews that take into account more recent changes to the project.

## Open Topics

* **Commit messages**. Improvement was shown in this area. A few mystery commits happened, such as "all", and "Structural changes", but most commits provide a better clue of what they do than previously.  Notably, commits seem more frequent and smaller than usual, this is generally a good practice, and I suspect is a side effect of consciously considering the commit message during the development process.  Good work here.
* **Doesn't build**. The project still references assets outside the project directory, causing build failures. See the [previous review](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#doesnt-compile) for more details.
* **Code organisation**. Some progress was made in this area.  A group called "Classes" still exists, and this group still contains things that are not classes.  See the [previous review](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#code-organization)
* **Layouts**. The About screen was ported to storyboards.  The layout appears to be sound, and shows good progress. I'd really recommend porting more UI in this fashion, as I'm seeing changes in the commit logs that would be faster to implement with Storyboards.
* **Memory leak**. A memory leak [identified in the previous review](https://github.com/eytanlevit/CleanApp/blob/master/Code%20Reviews/1/1.md#memory-leak) still exists.
* **Swift**. 3 classes were added or ported to Swift. They are generally sound, although some notes may follow.  This shows good progress in this area.
